docs: add window customization guide (#31054)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/window-customization.md

# Window Customization

> The `BrowserWindow` module is the foundation of your Electron application, and it exposes

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
The `BrowserWindow` module is the foundation of your Electron application, and exposes
```

> many APIs that can change the look and behaviour of your browser windows. In this

Reviewer: Nit: American spelling or British/Canadian spelling? :thinking: 
```suggestion
many APIs that can change the look and behavior of your browser windows. In this
```

Author: Errr... let's arbitrarily go with American. Slip-up on my part.

Chrome browser, window _chrome_ refers to the parts of the window (e.g. toolbars, controls)
that are not a part of the web page.

To create a frameless window, you need to set `frame` to `false` in the `BrowserWindow`
constructor.

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({frame: false })
```

## Apply custom title bar styles _macOS_ _Windows_

Title bar styles allow you to hide most of a Browser Window's chrome while keeping the
system's native window controls intact and can be configured with the `titleBarStyle`
option in the `BrowserWindow` constructor.

Applying the `hidden` title bar style results in a hidden title bar and a full
size content window.

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({ titleBarStyle: 'hidden' })
```

### Control the traffic lights _macOS_

On macOS, applying the `hidden` title bar style will still expose the standard window
controls (“traffic lights”) in the top left.

#### Customize the look of your traffic lights _macOS_

The `customButtonsOnHover` title bar style will.

> ```javascript

Reviewer: For consistency:
```suggestion
```javascript title='main.js'
```

Reviewer: Hmm, just for clarification are we doing this?

* On _Windows_:
  * transparent windows will not work when DWM is
  disabled.
  * transparent windows can not be maximized using the Windows system menu or by double
  clicking the title bar. The reasoning behind this can be seen on
  PR [#28207](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/28207).
* On _macOS_:
  * the native window shadow will not be shown on a transparent window.

## Create click-through windows

To create a click-through window, i.e. making the window ignore all mouse
events, you can call the [win.setIgnoreMouseEvents(ignore)][ignore-mouse-events]
API:

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow()
win.setIgnoreMouseEvents(true)
```

### Forward mouse events _macOS_ _Windows_

Ignoring mouse messages makes the web contents oblivious to mouse movement,
meaning that mouse movement events will not be emitted. On Windows and macOS, an
optional parameter can be used to forward mouse move messages to the web page,
allowing events such as `mouseleave` to be emitted:

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow, ipcMain } = require('electron')
const path = require('path')

> const win = new BrowserWindow({
>   preload: path.join(__dirname, 'preload.js)
> })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const win = new BrowserWindow({
  webPreferences: {
    preload: path.join(__dirname, 'preload.js')
  }
})
```

Author: i always make this mistake omg

ipcMain.on('set-ignore-mouse-events', (event, ...args) => {
  const win = BrowserWindow.fromWebContents(event.sender)
  win.setIgnoreMouseEvents(...args)
})
```

```javascript title='preload.js'
window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
  const el = document.getElementById('clickThroughElement')
  el.addEventListener('mouseenter', () => {
    ipcRenderer.send('set-ignore-mouse-events', true, { forward: true })
  })
  el.addEventListener('mouseleave', () => {
    ipcRenderer.send('set-ignore-mouse-events', false)
  })
})
```

This makes the web page click-through when over the `#clickThroughElement` element,
and returns to normal outside it.

## Set custom draggable region

By default, the frameless window is non-draggable. Apps need to specify
`-webkit-app-region: drag` in CSS to tell Electron which regions are draggable
(like the OS's standard titlebar), and apps can also use
`-webkit-app-region: no-drag` to exclude the non-draggable area from the
 draggable region. Note that only rectangular shapes are currently supported.

To make the whole window draggable, you can add `-webkit-app-region: drag` as
`body`'s style:

> ```html
> <body style="-webkit-app-region: drag">
> </body>
> ```

Reviewer: This may need to be a CSS block instead, due to the default CSP tags we provide in various quick-start/templates.
```suggestion
```css
body {
  -webkit-app-region: drag;
}
```
```

# Window Customization

The `BrowserWindow` module is the foundation of your Electron application, and it exposes
many APIs that can change the look and behavior of your browser windows. In this
tutorial, we will be going over the various use-cases for window customization on
macOS, Windows, and Linux.

## Create frameless windows

A frameless window is a window that has no [chrome]. Not to be confused with the Google
Chrome browser, window _chrome_ refers to the parts of the window (e.g. toolbars, controls)
that are not a part of the web page.

To create a frameless window, you need to set `frame` to `false` in the `BrowserWindow`
constructor.

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')

> const win = new BrowserWindow({frame: false })

Reviewer: Nit(formatting):
```suggestion
const win = new BrowserWindow({ frame: false })
```

```

## Apply custom title bar styles _macOS_ _Windows_

> Title bar styles allow you to hide most of a Browser Window's chrome while keeping the

Reviewer: Either:
```suggestion
Title bar styles allow you to hide most of a BrowserWindow's chrome while keeping the
```

or:
```suggestion
Title bar styles allow you to hide most of a browser window's chrome while keeping the
```

system's native window controls intact and can be configured with the `titleBarStyle`
option in the `BrowserWindow` constructor.

> Applying the `hidden` title bar style results in a hidden title bar and a full
> size content window.

Reviewer: Perhaps:
```suggestion
Applying the `hidden` title bar style results in a hidden title bar and a full-size
content window.
```

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({ titleBarStyle: 'hidden' })
```

### Control the traffic lights _macOS_

On macOS, applying the `hidden` title bar style will still expose the standard window
controls (“traffic lights”) in the top left.

#### Customize the look of your traffic lights _macOS_

> The `customButtonsOnHover` title bar style will.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `customButtonsOnHover` title bar style will (EXPLAIN WHAT THIS DOES)
```

Author: 🙈  Great catch.

```javascript
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({ titleBarStyle: 'customButtonsOnHover' })
```

#### Customize the traffic light position _macOS_

To modify the position of the traffic light window controls, there are two configuration
options available.

Applying `hiddenInset` title bar style will shift the vertical inset of the traffic lights
by a fixed amount.

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({ titleBarStyle: 'hiddenInset' })
```

If you need more granular control over the positioning of the traffic lights, you can pass
a set of coordinates to the `trafficLightPosition` option in the `BrowserWindow`
constructor.

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({
  titleBarStyle: 'hidden',

>   trafficLightPosition: {x: 10, y: 10}

Reviewer: Nit(formatting): I don't know why the standard markdown linter doesn't catch this
```suggestion
  trafficLightPosition: { x: 10, y: 10 }
```

})
```

#### Show and hide the traffic lights programmatically _macOS_

You can also show and hide the traffic lights programmatically from the main process.
The `win.setWindowButtonVisibility` forces traffic lights to be show or hidden depending
on the value of its boolean parameter.

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow()
// hides the traffic lights
win.setWindowButtonVisibility(false)
```

> > Note: Given the number of APIs available, there are many ways of achieving. For instance,

Reviewer: Nit(grammar):

```suggestion
> Note: Given the number of APIs available, there are many ways of achieving this. For instance,
```

> combining `frame: false` with `win.setWindowButtonVisibility(true)` will yield the same
> layout outcome as setting `titleBarStyle: 'hidden'`.

## Window Controls Overlay _macOS_ _Windows_

The [Window Controls Overlay API] is a web standard that gives web apps the ability to
customize their title bar region when installed on desktop. Electron exposes this API

> through the `BrowserWindow` class' `titleBarOverlay` constructor option.

Reviewer: Avoid the weird possessive:
```suggestion
through the `BrowserWindow` constructor option `titleBarOverlay`.
```

When `titleBarOverlay` is enabled, the window controls become exposed in their default
position, and DOM elements cannot use the area underneath this region.

The `titleBarOverlay` option accepts two different value formats.

Specifying `true` on either platform will result in an overlay region with default
system colors:

```javascript title='main.js'
// on macOS or Windows
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({
  titleBarStyle: 'hidden',
  titleBarOverlay: true
})
```

On Windows, you can also specify the color of the overlay and its symbols by setting
`titleBarOverlay` to an object with the `color` and `symbolColor` properties. If an option
is not specified, the color will default to its system color for the window control buttons:

```javascript title='main.js'
// on Windows
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({
  titleBarStyle: 'hidden',
  titleBarOverlay: {
    color: '#2f3241',
    symbolColor: '#74b1be'
  }
})
```

> Note: Once your title bar overlay is enabled from the main process, you can access the overlay's

> > color and dimension values from a renderer using a set of readonly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> color and dimension values from the renderer process using a set of read-only
```

Author: We use `readonly` in the docs a lot

> [JavaScript APIs][overlay-javascript-apis] and [CSS Environment Variables][overlay-css-env-vars].

## Create transparent windows

> By setting the `transparent` option to `true`, you can make a fully transparent window,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting the `transparent` option to `true`, you can make a fully transparent window.
```

```javascript title='main.js'
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')
const win = new BrowserWindow({ transparent: true })
```

### Limitations

> * You can not click through the transparent area. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You cannot click through the transparent area. See
```

  [#1335](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/1335) for details.
* Transparent windows are not resizable. Setting `resizable` to `true` may make
  a transparent window stop working on some platforms.
* The CSS [`blur()`] filter only applies to the window's web contents, so there is no way to apply
  blur effect to the content below the window (i.e. other applications open on
  the user's system).
* The window will not be transparent when DevTools is opened.
* On _Windows_:

>   * transparent windows will not work when DWM is
>   disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Transparent windows will not work when DWM is disabled.
```

Also perhaps explain what DWM is?

>   * transparent windows can not be maximized using the Windows system menu or by double

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Transparent windows can not be maximized using the Windows system menu or by double
```

  clicking the title bar. The reasoning behind this can be seen on
  PR [#28207](https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/28207).
* On _macOS_:

>   * the native window shadow will not be shown on a transparent window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The native window shadow will not be shown on a transparent window.
```

  const win = BrowserWindow.fromWebContents(event.sender)
  win.setIgnoreMouseEvents(...args)
})
```

```javascript title='preload.js'
window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
  const el = document.getElementById('clickThroughElement')
  el.addEventListener('mouseenter', () => {
    ipcRenderer.send('set-ignore-mouse-events', true, { forward: true })
  })
  el.addEventListener('mouseleave', () => {
    ipcRenderer.send('set-ignore-mouse-events', false)
  })
})
```

This makes the web page click-through when over the `#clickThroughElement` element,
and returns to normal outside it.

## Set custom draggable region

By default, the frameless window is non-draggable. Apps need to specify
`-webkit-app-region: drag` in CSS to tell Electron which regions are draggable
(like the OS's standard titlebar), and apps can also use
`-webkit-app-region: no-drag` to exclude the non-draggable area from the
 draggable region. Note that only rectangular shapes are currently supported.

To make the whole window draggable, you can add `-webkit-app-region: drag` as
`body`'s style:

```css title='styles.css'
body {
  -webkit-app-region: drag;
}

> 

Reviewer: Needs an ending fence here (cannot be suggested due to GitHub limitations)
